feat: document updates (#23)
syntasso/kratix-docs: docs/main/05-reference/03-promises/03-updates.md

---
title: Updates
sidebar_label: Updates

> description: Documentation on how updates behaviour for promises

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Documentation on how updates behave for Promises
```

---

# Updates

Kratix supports updating Promises with new specifications. Any update to the

> Promise will result in the retriggering of the configure workflows for all
> resources. For example if you update the configure workflow image version and
> change a field in the dependencies Kratix will roll out all the changes to
> dependencies to all the destinations and retrigger all the configure workflows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Promise will result in the re-running the Configure Workflows for all resources. 
For example, if you update the Configure Workflow image version and change 
a field in the Dependencies Kratix will roll out the new Dependencies to
Destinations and re-run all the Configure Workflows
```

with the new image version.

## Scheduling
When changing the scheduling of a Promise, either by modifying `.spec.destinationSelectors` or

> changing what the contents of `/kratix/metadata/destination-selectors.yaml` this may result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changing the contents of `/kratix/metadata/destination-selectors.yaml` at the end of a Workflow may result
```

> changing what the contents of `/kratix/metadata/destination-selectors.yaml` this may result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changing the contents of `/kratix/metadata/destination-selectors.yaml` at the end of a Workflow may result
```

> in a set of destinations previously targeted from old version of the Promise no longer
> being targeted. When this happens the files written to the destination **are not removed**, but are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a set of Destinations previously targeted from old version of the Promise no longer
being targeted. When this happens the files written to the Destination **are not removed**, but are
```

marked as `orphaned` by Kratix and are **not updated anymore**.

### Example
If you had a Promise with the following scheduling:
```
apiVersion: platform.kratix.io/v1alpha1
kind: Promise
metadata:
  name: promise-name
spec:
  destinationSelectors:
    - matchLabels:
        environment: dev
  dependencies:
    - apiVersion: v1
      kind: Namespace
      metadata:
        name: foo
```

Kratix will schedule the `foo` namespace resource to all destination with the label
`environment: dev`. If you updated the Promise to now instead have the following spec:

```
apiVersion: platform.kratix.io/v1alpha1
kind: Promise
metadata:
  name: promise-name
spec:
  destinationSelectors:
    - matchLabels:
        environment: prod
  dependencies:
    - apiVersion: v1
      kind: Namespace
      metadata:
        name: bar
```

> Kratix will schedule the `bar` namespace to all destinations with the label
> `environment: dev` and leave all of `environment: dev` clusters with the old

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kratix will schedule the `bar` namespace to all Destinations with the label
`environment: dev` and leave all of `environment: dev` Desintations with the old
```

> `foo` namespace. Its up to the platform team to manually delete these resources
> by deletes all `WorkPlacement` resources marked with the `kratix.io/orphaned`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`foo` namespace. It's up to the platform team to manually delete these resources
by deleting all `WorkPlacement` resources marked with the `kratix.io/orphaned`
```
